README.md, before:

# [Plan] 🎯 Advanced Random Airdrop System with Chainlink VRF & Automation

A comprehensive Solidity project that combines **Chainlink VRF** (Verifiable Random Function) and **Chainlink Automation** to create a fully automated, fair, and transparent airdrop distribution system.

## 🌟 What Makes This Project Special

This isn't just another airdrop contract. It's a **complete automated ecosystem** that demonstrates advanced smart contract patterns, Chainlink integrations, and real-world deployment strategies.

- **Fully Automated**: No manual intervention required after setup
- **Provably Fair**: Uses Chainlink VRF for verifiable randomness

## 🎓 Learning Objectives

### 🔗 Chainlink VRF Integration
- Requesting and handling verifiable random numbers
- Managing VRF subscriptions and LINK payments
- Implementing callback functions with proper error handling
- Working with request IDs and async responses

### 🤖 Chainlink Automation (Keepers)
- Setting up automated time-based triggers
- Implementing `checkUpkeep` and `performUpkeep` functions
- Managing contract state transitions automatically
- Handling complex automation logic

### 🏗️ Advanced Smart Contract Patterns
- **Custom Errors**: Gas-efficient error handling
- **Events**: Comprehensive logging and monitoring
- **Enums**: Clean state management
- **Modifiers**: Access control and validation
- **CEI Pattern**: Checks-Effects-Interactions security

### 🧪 Professional Testing & Deployment
- Unit tests with Foundry
- Integration tests with forked networks
- Fuzz testing for edge cases
- Mock contracts for local development
- Deployment scripts for multiple networks
- Gas optimization techniques

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

### Unit Tests
```bash
forge test --match-test testRegistration
forge test --match-test testVRFCallback
forge test --match-test testAutomation
```

### Integration Tests
```bash
forge test --fork-url $SEPOLIA_RPC_URL
```

### Fuzz Tests
```bash
forge test --match-test testFuzz_MultipleRegistrations
```

### Gas Analysis
```bash
forge test --gas-report
```

## 🚀 Deployment & Interaction

### Local Development
```bash
# Start local blockchain
anvil

# Deploy to local
forge script script/DeployAirdrop.s.sol --rpc-url http://localhost:8545 --broadcast
```

### Testnet Deployment
```bash
# Deploy to Sepolia
make deploy ARGS="--network sepolia"

# Verify contract
make verify ARGS="--network sepolia"
```

### Interaction Scripts
```bash
# Register for airdrop
cast send $CONTRACT_ADDRESS "registerForAirdrop()" --private-key $PRIVATE_KEY

# Check registration status
cast call $CONTRACT_ADDRESS "isRegistered(address)" $YOUR_ADDRESS
```

 
## 🎯 Project Milestones

### Week 1: Foundation
- [ ] Project setup and basic contract structure
- [ ] Registration system implementation
- [ ] Basic VRF integration
- [ ] Initial testing framework

### Week 1: Automation
- [ ] Chainlink Automation integration
- [ ] Automated phase transitions
- [ ] Winner selection logic
- [ ] Integration testing

### Week 2: Advanced Features 
- [ ] Multi-tier prize system (optional)
- [ ] Weighted selection algorithm (optional)
- [ ] Anti-Sybil protection
- [ ] Gas optimization

### Week 2: Production Ready
- [ ] Comprehensive testing
- [ ] Deployment scripts
- [ ] Documentation
- [ ] Security review

## 🏆 Success Metrics

By the end of this project, you'll have:
- ✅ A fully functional automated airdrop system
- ✅ Deep understanding of Chainlink VRF and Automation
- ✅ Professional-grade testing and deployment skills
- ✅ Gas-optimized and secure smart contracts
- ✅ Real-world deployment experience

Commit message:

add installing dependecies in CI process, add the chainlink-brownie-contracts lib

README.md, after:

# [Plan] 🎯 Advanced Random Airdrop System with Chainlink VRF & Automation

A comprehensive Solidity project that combines **Chainlink VRF** (Verifiable Random Function) and **Chainlink Automation** to create a fully automated, fair, and transparent airdrop distribution system.

## 🌟 What Makes This Project Special

This isn't just another airdrop contract. It's a **complete automated ecosystem** that demonstrates advanced smart contract patterns, Chainlink integrations, and real-world deployment strategies.

- **Fully Automated**: No manual intervention required after setup
- **Provably Fair**: Uses Chainlink VRF for verifiable randomness

## 🎓 Learning Objectives

### 🔗 Chainlink VRF Integration
- Requesting and handling verifiable random numbers
- Managing VRF subscriptions and LINK payments
- Implementing callback functions with proper error handling
- Working with request IDs and async responses

### 🤖 Chainlink Automation (Keepers)
- Setting up automated time-based triggers
- Implementing `checkUpkeep` and `performUpkeep` functions
- Managing contract state transitions automatically
- Handling complex automation logic

### 🏗️ Advanced Smart Contract Patterns
- **Custom Errors**: Gas-efficient error handling
- **Events**: Comprehensive logging and monitoring
- **Enums**: Clean state management
- **Modifiers**: Access control and validation
- **CEI Pattern**: Checks-Effects-Interactions security

### 🧪 Professional Testing & Deployment
- Unit tests with Foundry
- Integration tests with forked networks
- Fuzz testing for edge cases
- Mock contracts for local development
- Deployment scripts for multiple networks
- Gas optimization techniques

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

### Unit Tests
```bash
forge test --match-test testRegistration
forge test --match-test testVRFCallback
forge test --match-test testAutomation
```

### Integration Tests
```bash
forge test --fork-url $SEPOLIA_RPC_URL
```

### Fuzz Tests
```bash
forge test --match-test testFuzz_MultipleRegistrations
```

### Gas Analysis
```bash
forge test --gas-report
```

## 🚀 Deployment & Interaction

### Local Development
```bash
# Start local blockchain
anvil

# Deploy to local
forge script script/DeployAirdrop.s.sol --rpc-url http://localhost:8545 --broadcast
```

### Testnet Deployment
```bash
# Deploy to Sepolia
make deploy ARGS="--network sepolia"

# Verify contract
make verify ARGS="--network sepolia"
```

### Interaction Scripts
```bash
# Register for airdrop
cast send $CONTRACT_ADDRESS "registerForAirdrop()" --private-key $PRIVATE_KEY

# Check registration status
cast call $CONTRACT_ADDRESS "isRegistered(address)" $YOUR_ADDRESS
```

 
## 📚 Dependencies

This project uses the following libraries:
- Chainlink contracts for VRF (Verifiable Random Function) and Automation
- OpenZeppelin contracts for security and utility functions
- Forge Standard Library for testing

### Installing Dependencies

To install all required libraries with Foundry, run:

```bash
# Install all dependencies at once
forge install

# Or install each dependency individually
forge install smartcontractkit/chainlink-brownie-contracts --no-commit
forge install foundry-rs/forge-std --no-commit
forge install OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts --no-commit
```

> Note: The `--no-commit` flag prevents Foundry from committing the changes to your repository.

## 🎯 Project Milestones

### Week 1: Foundation
- [ ] Project setup and basic contract structure
- [ ] Registration system implementation
- [ ] Basic VRF integration
- [ ] Initial testing framework

### Week 1: Automation
- [ ] Chainlink Automation integration
- [ ] Automated phase transitions
- [ ] Winner selection logic
- [ ] Integration testing

### Week 2: Advanced Features 
- [ ] Multi-tier prize system (optional)
- [ ] Weighted selection algorithm (optional)
- [ ] Anti-Sybil protection
- [ ] Gas optimization

### Week 2: Production Ready
- [ ] Comprehensive testing
- [ ] Deployment scripts
- [ ] Documentation
- [ ] Security review

## 🏆 Success Metrics

By the end of this project, you'll have:
- ✅ A fully functional automated airdrop system
- ✅ Deep understanding of Chainlink VRF and Automation
- ✅ Professional-grade testing and deployment skills
- ✅ Gas-optimized and secure smart contracts
- ✅ Real-world deployment experience
